---
layout: post
title:  "Why I decided to learn Software Development"
date:   2017-04-29 21:51:41 +0000
---


After working for a few years in the insurance industry, I would like to shift into a career that combines my analytical ability with my creative side.  I work as an actuarial analyst at a property and casualty commercial insurance company where I developed my skills in analyzing data and building models in excel.  I was a mathematics major in college so I have always loved problem solving.  At work I am more excited by building products in excel than the analysis that defines the actuarial profession. Some of my favorite projects at work have been building features in excel models with VBA or working with Access databases. This led me to explore different career paths that focus on product development.  I joined the Women Who Code Meetup in NYC and discovered bootcamps and the Flatiron School.  Outside of work my hobbies are practicing yoga, going to museums, and making jewelry.  

In graduate school I discovered that software engineering might be a good fit for me.  In my last year I took an Introduction to Programming course which focused on programming foundations with Processing and C++.  For the final project I worked with a partner to create a game in which the player dodges objects of varying size and color.  It was a lot of fun and I gained experience programming with another person!  My overall experience was positive, but since I took this class at the end of my education, I did not think I knew enough at the time to pursue it as a career.  I still think back to the foundations I learned in this course when I am writing code.  It gave me the sense that a good solution doesn't just produce the answer but is well-organized and readable.  I like the challenge of writing a solution with the least amount of lines possible.  To round out my computer science knowledge, I am working through the textbook <u>Problem Solving with Algorithms and Data Structures Using Python</u> by Bradley N. Miller and David L. Ranum.  

The Flatiron School has provided a clear path to the programming world.  Although I have some background in technical work, I was unfamiliar with useful industry tools such as Git.  I am confident that the online web developer program is a good fit because I have done a significant amount of self-study through the actuarial exams and I like the flexibility it offers.  I am really excited to be a recipient of the women take tech scholarship funded by Birchbox.  It removed any doubts that I had about doing the bootcamp.  I plan to take advantage of living close to the Flatiron School by attending panel discussions and networking events there.  I attended a session about Technical Recruiting as part of the Women in Tech series.  A valueable takeaway from that session is to show confidence in my work and abilities.  I look forward to engaging more in the Flatiron community so I am not doing it alone!


