---
layout: post
title:  CLI Project Post
date:   2017-05-30 23:47:21 +0000
---


At this point I am adding the the finishing touches to my CLI Gem and will submit in a few days.  Coming up with a project was more difficult than I expected.  Most of my ideas were too complicated or inappropriate for this project.  I wanted to do a project that would require scraping images because my hobbies are visual in some way.  I thought about scraping Etsy for inspiration because I love DIY projects but I will save it for another project.  I didn’t want to scrape for news articles.  I decided on scraping recipes because I cook regularly.  I’ve had good experiences with recipes from the Food52 Blog and the CSS tags looked reasonable to scrape.  

To add an additional layer to the program I thought that I could remove recipes with certain ingredients that I do not like such as beef, chicken, pork, cilantro, and oranges.  I never cook with these ingredients so why bother looking at them?  So I decided on the Personalized Recipes application.  I generalized the exclusion feature for the Ruby Gem but kept a hidden array so that I can use it for my own preferences.  Getting started was the hardest part as I had no idea what creating a Gem entailed.  I also decided it was time to work on the local environment and installed Atom to work directly with the Terminal so I had to familiarize myself with the new environment.  I watched the CLI Data Gem Walkthrough video a few times before coding along while watching it.  It was confusing at first to work directly with the terminal and commit to GitHub.  I really enjoyed this project once I got past the hurdle of getting started.  Since I was scraping a site that would lead to picking up recipe details on other sites I started with a structure similar to the Student Scraper lab.  The class structure and functions flowed naturally with how I planned the program.  This was a great project to connect the ideas I have learned thus far and learn about Ruby Gems.  I also have a new appreciation for GitHub.  I had to reorganize the scraping class twice and it helped to look back at the previous versions.  Now I am looking forward to returning to the regular labs!
